---
tags: [meeting, retro]
---

# Sprint Retro 2022-03-23

## Went Well
- __Offsite__ (Julio + many others). __Team Building__ (Patricia). __Patrick xD__ (Ferran).
  General rejoicement about the offsite.
- __Data Sprint__ (Alberto)
  It went well, so good job team.
- __We know the product team in person__ (Patri)
  Also positive and nice brainstorming sessions during the offsite.


## Not so well
- __Lauren__ (Alejandro + many others).
  Sad to see her leave.
- __Bigger tasks first__ / __Blocking tasks first__ (Gorka + Ferran)
  Encourage doing big tasks and blocking tasks early in the sprint (Interface sprint did not go too well this time).
- __Audience API and python 3.6__
  Couldn't use most recent features of python, but we are going to improve in current sprint. What needs to be improved here is the keeping up of python versions in projects.
- __I will start to use docker airflow locally__ (Patri)
  Much better to work and test dags locally.
- __TTD Reports in Excel format__ (Alicia)
  _TTD_ means The Trade Desk. We will not stand for using excel in automated ETLs.
- __No activities after offsite (apart from drinking)__ (Alicia)
  There was no activity other than drinking after the offsite. Easier for introverts if there is an activity.
  Julio: lack of spaces to hang out and have a conversation with others. More corporate with meetings during the day.
  General: Ferran and Alicia (and Boja) for leisure can volunteer to organise team building activities next time.
- __Ye olde lookalikes__ (Bertu)
  Nothing new to add
- __Kafka ingesters__ (Gorka)
  Sharethis delays unearthed some parallelization in Kafka ingesters. It adds to other unstable services like secor or dsp-sync.
- __VPC__ (Ferran)
  Stressed by the amount of work to be done in this area.
  Alejandro: the upside is that after a few months we will learn a lot about AWS
  

## New Ideas
- __Data pipelines optimizations__ (Julio)
  In this sprint I was testing a new pipeline in alpha and Alberto suggested writing a separate story. Optimizations will come as traders start using our new products in unexpected ways
- __More board games__ / __Weekly instead of bi-weekly__ (Ferran)
  No comment
- __Can I do the task alone?__ (Alejandro)
  One thing to verify while grooming is to check whether each team member can do the task alone. Discussion that it is not a great idea and mostly due to problems with the infrastructure area within the interface team. Idea: a gorkatalk about infrastructure.
- __Should Rhys join the retro or is it done on purpose__ (Miriam)
  Open question. Jordi explains we haven't added him yet but we are planning to.
- __Engineering retrospective__ (Ferran)
  Should this retrospective be a retro for the whole of engineering or only for the scrum team?
  Julio: in past experiences bigger retrospectives were better and more informative.
  Bertu: I talk about Eduardo's involvement plans into the team.
- __Barcelona social team__ (Ferran)
  Meeting for drinks after work and similar but not official.
- __Lambda for Airflow__ (Ferran)
  Use airflow to execute lambda functions.
## Notes & Actions
- [x] Organisation of future offsites (created task)
- [x] Gorkatalk on infrastructure (created task)
- [x] Segregation of small airflow tasks from the airflow instance itself (discarded acting)

![[Screenshot from 2022-03-23 17-59-16.png]]